This is text document documenting the architecture of the ternary emulator that could be found in this 
GitHub repo: https://github.com/FredNeedsHelp/Ternary-Emulator

Representation of ternary values and integers:

A base enum called 'trit' could be found in the header file, which assigns pos to 1, net to 0, and neg to -1.
Making an array out of the enum trit allows for ternary representation of integers, which allows for trit-wise operations.
4 custom data types exist currently: int9, int12, int24, and char_t.

The number tacked on the end of the int represents the int's width, with char_t is 12 trits long.

This is an updated version of the architecture, older-legacy version had the 2 main data types defined in a struct called int_t which was a pain in the ass to work with. I have spent a few hours refactoring all my code
to support a newer and more elegant architecture, aka separate data types not found in a singular struct.

yes, im dead inside and i had to change every goddam function and how they return data. In C you return a whole fucking struct but not an array, classic.

By default, the emulator has 3 registers and 85 cells of ram (1020 trits of memory).
Another thing to know is the custom ISA which will be called TISA (Ternary Instruction Set Architecture) from now on,
TISA is quite small and primitive, only having ~20 instructions, 15 exposed to the programmer writing tasm code and 5 for the system.
some being reserved for future TISA instructions.

typedef enum 
{
        add = 1,  
        sub = 2,  
        jmp = 3, 
        load = 4,
        store = 5, 
        move = 6, 
        shr = 7,
        shl = 8, 
        cmp = 9, 
        max = 10, 
        min = 11,
        flp = 12,
        set = 13,
        mlp = 14, 
        dvd = 15,
        noop = 16,
        quit = 0,
        halt = 26,

        cyc_def = 23,
        label = 24,
        skip = 25,
        Unknown_Halt = -1,
} op_codes;  

The table here is the defination of the op code found in the scrappy_striker header.
Im going to start explaining on how each instruction works.

Add: Adds between 2 registers. ex: add R0 R1
Sub: Subtracts between 2 registers. ex: sub R0 R1
mlp: multiplies between 2 registers. ex: mlp R0 R1
dvd: divides between 2 registers. ex: dvd R0 R1
jmp: Jumps to a line of code using an RAM address or a label, uses a trit value for the condition ex: jump NEG 14
load: loads data from memory into register using a memory address. ex: load R1 14
store: store data from register into memory using a memory address. ex: store R1 14
shr: shifts trits to the right, the number after the register is how many. ex: shr R0 5 
shr: shifts trits to the left, the number after the register is how many. ex: shl R0 5
cmp: compares between 2 registers and updates a trit flag which is used the jmp. ex: cmp R0 R1
max: compares between 2 registers and gets the largest value between them and puts them into dst register. ex: max R0 R1
min: compares between 2 registers and gets the smallest value between them and puts them into dst register. ex: min R0 R1
flp: flips the polarity of the register. ex: flip R0
set: equivalent to an immediate, sets a register to a value. ex: set R0 10
quit: resets RAM and CPU before halting CPU, and has an exit code. ex: quit 0
halt: stops the CPU and dumps RAM and CPU.
cyc_def: how many cycles the CPU is allowed to run for. ex: CYC 50


This text document isn't going to explain every minuet detail to the last hair. figure it out, my code is quite easy to read and isn't very big. I simply explained on how to write TASM code and the basic structure of the emulator. 

All functions and variable names follow a standard naming convention, if its converting x to y. then take the first letter of the data type of x and then take the first letter of the data type of y and add a 2 between them. ex: T2D (Ternary 2 Decimal), T2C (Ternary 2 Char), D2T (Decimal 2 Ternary), etc.

I also would like to note that the assembler is VERY primitive, anything I didn't take account for will probably not be dealt with correctly and throw an error or a "Surprise" if your stupid enough. Same goes for the CPU, TISA, and everything else.
I built this emulator including the assembler in under 5 days with no experience with CPU architecture, emulation, nor ternary.	

The assembler will and wont check if your code is valid, anything you write is going straight into the CPU (if it is present in the look up table of course).
A kinda-mid way to know your TASM code is invalid, is that the assembler runs correctly and the CPU exits/throws an error. 

This emulator is for a school proposal, so I did not use AI or any LMMs to write ANY CODE. I absolutely despise AI and AI CODE/WORK, its absolute SHIT and will never solve any real problems. The furthest usage of AI ill allow ever in my personal life is using it as a glorified debugger and not a nanometer over that line.
